Hello, My name is Mitch Fleichmann,
senior instructor here at Splunk.
Today we are going to
install Splunk on Linux.
I'm using one of
the Splunk Education Linux servers.
Let's examine the environment.
First of all,
notice I'm logged in as the user splunker.
As a best practice,
do not install Splunk as the root user.
I'm currently in the /opt directory,
where I've already downloaded
the tarball from splunk.com/download for
this platform.
As a final check, let's check the system
to make sure we have the correct operating
system and kernel.
This is indeed a Linux machine, let's
get confirmation that it is also 64 bit.
So we are good to go.
The next step is to unzip and
untar the installer and
that we can do with the gunzip and
tar commands.
When everything untucks, you'll notice
a new sub directory created named splunk.
And we can navigate to the splunk/bin
directory to start up Splunk.
Couple of ways to start
Splunk with no switches.
On the first startup, you'll be prompted
to read and agree to the software license.
Or as a shortcut, you can start
up Splunk and accept the license.
And notice a couple of port numbers
being grabbed, port 8000 for
splunk web and port 8089 for
splunk management.
The splunk daemon has started.
Splunk is generating its own keys.
And we can see the splunk web interface,
the URL.
As a best practice,
you may also want to consider automating
splunk to start when the machine boots.
That you can do as the root user.
By issuing the splunk enable command,
enable boot-start as the -user splunker,
the same user that we
just consult splunk with.
So lets log in to splunk web and
see how the system looks.
And for that we'll go back to the browser.
Go to the appropriate URL.
And we can see upon first login,
you are prompted to login with
the credentials admin, password changeme.
Since this is the first login,
you also coach to change your
password to something more secure.
And it's highly recommended to
follow this best practice as well.
And also on first connection,
you'll also see a splash screen
showing you what's new in version 6.
In this case, Powerful Analytics.
Some changes to the UI to
make it more intuitive.
Simplified component management for
cluster management,
folder management and so on.
Also a richer developer experience.
Close down this window and
you can explore the navigation options.
And notice in the left side,
you see a panel showing you
the apps to navigate to and manage.
And on the right side, you see some
panel showing you data in the system and
various links for help.
Let's go to the search and
reporting app by clicking here.
And you can see the search far up top,
some tips on how to search and
then data to search.
Since this is a fresh install,
there is no data to search, so
the next step is to index data and
begin searching.
Good luck.